Welcome to the Simpsons Wiki!
We are currently editing over 24,549 articles, 234,656 pages, 130,924 files, and 33,887,651 users.
Simpsons Wiki is a free encyclopedia for everything related to The Simpsons. The wiki allows anyone to create or edit any article, so everyone can contribute their knowledge to help create a decisive database of Simpsons information.

The Simpsons (often shortened to Simpsons) is an A


Bart Simpson
“¡Ay Caramba!”
―Bart's catchphrase and first words
“Eat my shorts!”
―Bart's second catchphrase
“I didn't do it!”
―Bart's earlier catchphrase
“Don't have a cow, man.”
―Bart's third catchphrase
“I’m Bart Simpson, who the hell are you?”
―Bart's fourth catchphrase
“Aah! Sideshow Bob!”
―Bart (sometimes Lisa and the family) reacting to Sideshow Bob suddenly appearing
“Nobody better lay a finger on my Butterfinger!”
―Another one of Bart's catchphrases, exclusive to the Butterfinger commercials (it would be replaced by "Bite my Butterfinger!")
Bartholomew JoJo "Bart" Simpson (born April 1 ,1979 or February 23, 1979) is the mischievous, rebellious, misunderstood, disruptive and "potentially dangerous" oldest child of the Simpson family in The Simpsons. He is the only son of Homer and Marge Simpson, and the older brother of Lisa and Maggie. He also has been nicknamed "Cosmo", after discovering a comet in "Bart's Comet". Bart has also been on the cover on numerous comics, such as "Critical Hit", "Simpsons Treasure Trove #11", and "Winter Wingding". Bart also has a 100-issue comic series entitled the Simpson Comics Presents Bart Simpson. Bart is loosely based on Matt Groening and his older brother, Mark Groening.


Lisa's First Word

When Homer, Marge, Bart and Lisa unsuccessfully try to get Maggie to speak, Marge tells the family the story of when Lisa said her first word. Bart asks Marge his first word and a flashback is shown: Homer and Marge were having sex when baby Bart opens the door causing him to shout "Ay, Caramba!" in surprise. Marge then begins telling the story by describing the spring of 1983 as a time when "Ms. Pac-Man struck a blow for women's rights." It's March of 1983, and the Simpson family (minus Lisa and Maggie) originally lived in an apartment complex on the Lower East Side of Springfield. Homer comes home from work singing "Girls Just Want To Have Fun" when Bart happily runs up to his father shouting "Homer." Homer asks Bart to call him "Daddy" but Bart mischievously calls Homer "Dohmer" causing Homer to get outraged and shout his usual catchphrase "Why you little--!" and strangle Bart.